Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming.
Finally we're slowly getting to the end of our daughter preparation phase.
As you can see we've dealt with most of our missing data values in our daughter frame and today which
is going to finish up with these remaining red ones.
So what do we have here.
We've got some.
So for instance in this role we've got a missing value for expenses and because we know revenue and
profit we can calculate expenses from that.
And also we've got revenue and expenses here which we've proxied with the industry medians and from
those to we can calculate profit because profit equals revenue minus expenses.
And same thing here we've proxied revenue and expenses so we can calculate profit and that's just an
important bits to reiterate that it is your judgment call what to proxy and what to calculate.
So if there's a mathematical relationship then it's better usually it's better to calculate the value
like in this case.
And then if you have three values you will need to decide which ones of them you substitute.
So for instance we chose revenue expenses and we go in to calculate profit but always remember about
those mathematical relationships because if you for instance if we were to proxy here expenses we have
the median the industry median then these three would add up.
And that might lead to some confusion or inconsistency in your analytics.
So let's go ahead and jump into our and finally calculate these missing values.
All right.
So here I've got the formulas written out so revenue minus expenses equals profit and that will allow
us to calculate the profit figures and expenses if you solve for expenses then you'll get expenses equals
revenue minus profit that will allow you to calculate this figure over here.
Let's jump straight into it.
All right first thing we're going to filter our data set for any rows that have NA so missing values
in the profit column.
So in dollar sign profit and common nothing.
So that should bring us these two rows.
That's correct.
And now what we're going to do is we're going to use the power of vectorized operations.
We're going to simply take here we're going to say want to deal with profit and then we're going to
take the same and we're going to say we want in this case revenue minus.
And in this case expenses as simple as that.
Nothing more complex than that because this is going to give us a vector of two values rise and they
and they which we're going to replace.
This is going to be the revenues and this is going to be the associated expenses so once you subtract
the two and then you put them in here you will get exactly what you want.
All right there we go.
And now let's have a look at these records.
So we're going to have to remember the numbers there were 8 and 42.
So Finn see 8 and 42 comma nothing.
So there we go.
As you can see the profit has been populated and now we're just we're just left of that one record that
we need to fix up with the expenses.
So let's go ahead and do the same thing.
We're going to say fin is DOD and they do all this finial assign expenses coma.
Okay so we're just finding that one row.
Good.
Now we want to address the expenses and what are we going to put in there.
We're going to put fin revenue minus fin profit.
Okay.
So that should work for us if we are on this now.
There we go.
Let's have a look at what line was it it was line 15 we can see here line 15.
So let's look at Fin 15 comma nothing as you can see the expenses have been populated.
So if we look at the rows with missing values our incomplete cases you'll see that we only have that
one row which we agreed to keep because it's not going to affect our analysis.
There we go that's how we do dollar preparation.
I hope all that made sense.
And it was quite exciting to get through all this.
I know it was very tedious at points but I'm sure if you for the long you learned a lot of new techniques
and skills and I look forward See you next time.
Until then happy coding
.